in this lesson we'll look at the
benefits and usage of serverless
technologies now we have already talked
about this when we looked at the core
compute offerings we talked about azure
functions and azure logic apps but it's
called out as a specific skill that's
going to be assessed so let's dive into
a little bit more detail
so we already talked about the idea that
when i think about serverless
i don't care about any underlying
infrastructure
the core point of all of this server
list is it is consumption
based
i'm going to get billed based on the
actual work that is done
and if i think about these solutions
because it only runs when there's some
work that has to be done
well they are event driven
something has to happen
to fire off this serverless piece of
technology
now once again when i think about what
that could be
this could be hey i have some storage
account and something gets written to it
it could be i have a queue
and a new message gets put on that queue
it could be something like hey a
scheduled event
it could be i have an endpoint so
there's some endpoint
and someone is making a kind of restful
call against that but something is
happening that's going to trigger these
things off
now at that point
they're really those two different
solutions when i think about those
serverless offerings
i can think we have
azure
functions
now the key point about an azure
function it's running
some code so i am actually writing code
in one of the supported languages now if
we jump over for a second and actually
go ahead and look
we can go back to our function apps
remember if i create a new function app
remember we have this idea
of all these different
types of runtime stacks
so net node.js python java
powershell core or even a custom handler
can be used so if i have for example
some existing piece of code
and all i care about is my code and i
want to do something when an event
happens
this is a great option so the whole
point here is the focus is i have my
code
and i want to run that piece of code now
typically when we think about azure
functions
it's
and what i mean by that is
if i have multiple calls multiple events
there's no shared kind of state in
memory between those each time it's
called there's some
thing spun up to run my code and then it
goes away
now there is something called durable
functions
and durable functions enable me to have
some durable state i it's maintained
between events happening now that's used
in a number of different scenarios maybe
i want to fan out and call a bunch of
different things and then once they all
finish get the outputs and come back in
maybe it's some asynchronous interaction
that is long running maybe i'm polling
for something maybe there's some human
interaction there's different scenarios
but it is possible to create a durable
function but for the most part by
default they are not they are stateless
it does something
it goes away but i am writing the code
for that
the alternative
is azure
logic apps
here we think about no
or low code
we have this authoring experience
and as the name suggests it's all about
taking
there's that event
but it has a whole number of connectors
so there's a series of connectors that
integrate with some other service to
perform
some action
against that particular service this is
all about the idea of a citizen
developer people who are not developers
but they want to produce some action
if we look at power automate power
automate is actually built on logic apps
so it's all about automating tasks based
on that trigger
this is probably easiest to see so if
once again we jump over
but this time
let's look at our logic app
once again we saw i have a couple of
logic apps but we have this whole idea
of the logic app designer and here we
see these graphical things that are
doing different parts in this time my
trigger was hey a blob is added or
modified
i then create a shared access signature
just saying we can generate on a storage
account that gives me granular access to
maybe only a certain aspect of only
certain permissions
and then i'm calling some http endpoint
probably telling it location and giving
it that sas so that service i'm calling
can do something with it and then i
delete the blob afterwards
there's a huge number of connectors
available so it's about water connectors
it goes through what they are
so all these managed connectors
as a service by sql server
outlook
sftp sharepoint online queues ftp event
hubs salesforce i can integrate with
on-premises systems
i can integrate with other types of
systems other types of automations a
massive number of connectors out there
and there are also a huge number of
templates so i have some scenario
or it might be there's already that
sequence of different connectors based
on some trigger
that i could just leverage but i'm not
writing a whole bunch of code here
the whole key here is there's some
well-known api that there's an existing
connector for and i just want to be able
to go and use it
so here that's really the big focus on
how i think about this hey i'd probably
use a logic app if hey i'm not a
developer i don't have some code i want
to run
and there are well established
connectors to that system
hey i can do this nice graphical
authoring to light that up